---
layout: post
title: "Neural Reuse in Contemporary Cognitive Science"
description: "chapter 3 of Anderson 2014"
category: articles
tags: [neural reuse, function]
---

The gist of the Neural Reuse Hypothesis is that anatomical neural units - at multiple physical scales - are **functionally differentiated** from one another without necessarily being *specialized for a single function*, and are used for multiple cognitive and behavioral purposes. The aim of chapter 3 is to refine this hypothesis by comparison with other theoretical proposals of how neural resources are deployed in support of various cognitive functions. The argument rehearses much of the case for the neural reuse hypothesis presented in Anderson (2008), the author insisting more on the similarities between ACT-R, PDP, and hybrid architectures (e.g.,SAL, Leabra) and the NRH. Later on, the comparison between NRH and the neural exploitation hypothesis (Gallese and Lakoff 2005), the shared circuits model (Hurley 2005, 2008), and the neuronal recycling hypothesis (Dehaene 2005) is taken to reveal further advantages of the neural reuse hypothesis. The relevant similarities and differences are presented in the conceptual map below. 

Drawing on these extended comparisons, Anderson (2014) sketches the following features of the functional architecture of the brain that are compatible with the neural reuse hypothesis: 

1. local neural units are used and reused in multiple cognitive or behavioral circumstances, across traditional task categories. 
2. large scale function is achieved by local genetic and global network dynamics that produce sets of transiently assembled local neural sub-systems for various purposes. 
3. these is no one-to-one map between network states and tasks. The observed functional division of brain regions is due to modulation of the local network that changes its causal-functional properties.
4. there is a non-synaptic network (WT) which is governed by different 'rules', interacts with WT by modulating its elements and also by allowing large scale integration and coherent performance. 

At the most general level, by deploying these elements, the neural reuse hypotheses promises to offer an alternative analysis to one-to-one function structure mappings generated by the popular decomposition and localization approaches used in mechanistic science. The emerging analysis is said to supplement the reductive componential analysis with a dispositional vector account of neural structure. 

However, Anderson acknowledges that the case for this hypothesis needs to be supplemented by:
a. specific models of how information could flow between redeployed neural assemblies;
b. particular examples in higher-animals of how different configurations of the same parts can result in different cognitive behaviors.
c. a more complete discussion of how multiple uses of the same region can be coordinated. 

Some additional conceptual work also seems to be required to clarify: (i) how can functional modularity can be reconciled with a dispositional account of local functions; (ii) what is the payoff of drawing a distinction between functional differentiation and specialization; (iii) how does the neural reuse hypothesis solves the identification problem, i.e., establishing for a particular context, the cognitive purpose a neural network which has several functional biases, and (iv) how does the neural reuse hypothesis impact the construction of cognitive ontologies. 
